four Loop scripts.
Another advanced level of scripting you are keep getting better.
My friends keep getting better.
The next script that you're gonna run is for loop scripts for loops.
What they do is keeps running until a specified number off variable.
For example,
if a variable is defined,
Then run the script 10 times or variable is green,
blue,
red.
Then run the script three times for each color,
so it actually simply fires your tasks.
If you want to,
for example,
create file files or 10 files,
then you don't have to run the command again and again again.
Full four loops will do it for you.
We'll go back into our Lennox machine.
I will try a couple of scripts,
four loops and then you could try on your own and you will become profession were running
these little little time tie scripts.
So which dirty we are in?
We are in our home directory.
Always.
Home is not just home but entire home directory.
And the dirty that we are in is my script.
So in my scripts we're going to create a new script.
We're gonna call it this time.
ABC do V I A b c.
And the first thing you know already by now is that you define the shell script that you're
going to run this script in,
or the shell environment.
I would say that you're gonna run the script in and again with.
I have already written few script for you to go over this training,
and I'm gonna go into our first group,
which is a simple for loop output.
I'm gonna copy the script,
and I'm gonna just simply paste it.
This already has a defined shell,
so I'm gonna delete that line.
So what is it doing for I in 12345 Do so I hair is a variable,
which is telling that this container,
which is the container name,
is I.
It holds the numbers 12345 And then what is asking you to do?
The script is gonna do echo welcome variable one times variable.
Two times wearable.
Three very before variable five times.
And then once it's done,
it is done.
So that's why we have to define done at the end for the four loop to finish doing what is
doing.
So I'm just going to save the file once the files saved again,
you have to give execute permission.
The permission is given.
That's verified.
Yes,
the ABC filed is there.
Let's see what's inside of it.
Inside,
If it is exactly has the same thing.
Let's run the script,
ABC and their ego.
It's doing welcome.
One times,
two times,
three times,
four times and five times.
So basically,
if you have a repetitive task and on trust me,
you're gonna be working in a corporate environment where you would have to do so many
repetitive tasks.
And this loops script is gonna become so handy for you that you will be creating scripts
for every repetitive task that you will be doing every day.
So this is,
um,
uh,
putting five times.
Let's look at the second script.
So the second script,
what is doing?
It's basically doing the same thing.
But this time it will just output the names.
And I'm gonna make this X y Z as the name of the file.
And it has always starts with the shell.
That shell name has been bash,
and now this time you're gonna put in some comment and we're gonna say this script will
output Oh,
put Imron with different actions because it will say See Imron,
eat cm Ron Ron,
see Iran jump and see Imron play So this is what this group is gonna do.
So that's why I have put it in just a comment.
You could put more comment Mint.
See,
the script is created by Imron absolute.
And if you want put a date,
you can Medals kept that up and the script starts right here.
It's telling you,
for I in again I is a variable in Is you putting inside of your variable and variable is
just like a container.
It's telling you put,
eat,
jump,
run,
play inside of a container called I Once it has all these three or so four words inside of
the container,
I then do what we're doing.
We're echoing.
See Imron Dollar I.
The variable is already always be displayed with the dollar and the name of the variable.
So it's telling it,
dollar eye And then,
once I once the script is gonna display every little every word in the container,
then it's gonna be done.
Once done,
the script is created.
Script has done its job and we will verify it.
The Scriptures here Next thing you know by now is to change the permission on X y z.
So it will have execute herbal permission and executed permission.
Once again,
I am reiterating again and again.
If you cannot run the script is because you do not have execute permission.
So we do have executed excusable permission.
Awesome!
Perfect.
Let's run it X y z Oh,
it say's bash X y z no such file or directory.
Why is that?
Of course we have put c it Z actually x y z So let's run it and they go see him.
Ron,
Eat,
See and run Run!
See and Ron jump cm Ron play.
So again it is doing a repetitive tasks for you.
So this four loop is a very strong statement in a scripting environment that the lets you
run repetitive tack again and again so you don't have to do it yourself and spend time all
day and creating those little tedious task.
I want you to write other scripts that I have inside of this file.
This file is again in your handouts.
Um,
I want you to download this handout.
Create these little scripts again and run it and see what they do.
It will be a great exercise for you.